[Docs] Add kernel library guide (#169)
apache/tvm-ffi: docs/guides/kernel_library_guide.rst

.. software distributed under the License is distributed on an
.. "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
.. KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
.. specific language governing permissions and limitations
.. under the License.

====================
Kernel Library Guide
====================

This guide serves as a quick start for composing a kernel from scratch, or migrating a kernel from externel frameworks. It covers the core concepts in TVM FFI, such as tensor, stream.

Tensor
======

Tensor is the most important input for a kernel libaray. In PyTorch C++ extensions, kernel library usually takes ``at::Tensor`` as tensor input. In TVM FFI, we introduce two types of tensor, ``ffi::Tensor`` and ``ffi::TensorView``.

Tensor and TensorView
---------------------

Both ``ffi::Tensor`` and ``ffi::TensorView`` are designed to represent tensors in TVM FFI eco-system. The main difference is whether it is an owning tensor pointer.

:ffi::Tensor:
 ``ffi::Tensor`` is a completely onwing tensor pointer, pointing to TVM FFI tensor object. TVM FFI handles the lifetime of ``ffi::Tensor`` by retaining a strong reference.

:ffi::TensorView:

>  ``ffi::TensorView`` is a light weight non-owning tnesor pointer, pointeing to a TVM FFI tensor or external tensor object. TVM FFI does not retain its reference. So users are responsible for ensuring the lifetime of tensor object to which the ``ffi::TensorView`` points.

Reviewer: non-owning view of an existing tensor. It is backed by DLTensor structure in DLPack

> TVM FFI can automatically convert the input tensor at Python side, e.g. ``torch.Tensor``, to both ``ffi::Tensor`` or ``ffi::TensorView`` at C++ side, depends on the C++ function arguments. However, for more flexibility and better compatibility, we **recommand** to use ``ffi::TensorView`` in practice. Since some frameworks, like JAX, cannot provide strong referenced tensor, as ``ffi::Tensor`` expected.

Reviewer: we **recommend* to use ``ffi::TensorView`` when possible, that helps us to support more cases, including cases where only view but not strong reference are passed. It is also more lightweight.

> TVM FFI can automatically convert the input tensor at Python side, e.g. ``torch.Tensor``, to both ``ffi::Tensor`` or ``ffi::TensorView`` at C++ side, depends on the C++ function arguments. However, for more flexibility and better compatibility, we **recommand** to use ``ffi::TensorView`` in practice. Since some frameworks, like JAX, cannot provide strong referenced tensor, as ``ffi::Tensor`` expected.

Reviewer: XLA Buffer is weak reference, we can "fake" a strong reference by `pass_owning_tensor=True` now, but the tensor cannot be retained or returned.

Tensor as Argument
------------------

> Typically, we expect that all tensors are pre-allocated at Python side and passed in via TVM FFI, including the output tensor. And TVM FFI will convert them into ``ffi::TensorView`` at runtime. For the optional arguments, ``ffi::Optional`` is the best practice. Here is an example of a kernel definition at C++ side and calling at Python side.

Reviewer 2: might be off-topic, but does tvm-ffi supports std::optional?

.. code-block:: c++

 // Kernel definition
 void func(ffi::TensorView input, ffi::Optional<ffi::Tensor> optional_input, ffi::TensorView output, ffi::TensorView workspace);

.. code-block:: python

 # Kernel calling
 input = torch.tensor(...)
 output = torch.empty(...)
 workspace = torch.empty(...)
 func(input, None, output, workspace)

> Ideally, we expect the kernel function to have ``void`` as return type. However, if it is necessary to return the ``ffi::Tensor`` anyway, please pay attention to convert the output ``ffi::Tensor`` to original tensor type at Python side, like ``torch.from_dlpack``.

Reviewer: the FFI automatically convert the returning tensor to torch.Tensor when input contains torch arguments

 ``ffi::TensorView`` is non-owning view of an existing tensor. It is backed by ``DLTensor`` structure in DLPack. Since it is a non-owning view, it is the user's responsibility to ensure the lifetime of underlying tensor data and attributes of the viewed tensor object.

We **recommend** to use ``ffi::TensorView`` when possible, that helps us to support more cases, including cases where only view but not strong reference are passed, like XLA buffer. It is also more lightweight.

Tensor Attributes
-----------------

For the sake of convenience, ``ffi::TensorView`` and ``ffi::Tensor`` align the following attributes retrieval mehtods to ``at::Tensor`` interface:

``dim``, ``sizes``, ``size``, ``strides``, ``stride``, ``numel``, ``data_ptr``, ``device``, ``is_contiguous``

DLDataType
 In TVM FFI, tensor data types are stored as ``DLDataType`` which is defined by DLPack protocol.

DLDevice
 In TVM FFI, tensor device information are stored as ``DLDevice`` which is defined by DLPack protocol.

ShapeView
 In TVM FFI, tensor shapes and strides attributes retrieval are returned as ``ShapeView``. It is an iterate-able data structure storing the shapes or strides data as ``int64_t`` array.

> Tensor Allocation

Reviewer 3: Do we support allocate some zero-initialized tensor?

I ask this question because there is a usage that requires the workspace to be zero-initailized before we launch the kernel - like the semaphores used in split_k optimization of matmul in cutlass. If we have an extra memset-async kernel, it will introduce some overhead. I don't have some good idea on this. Maybe manually set to zero when first launch the kernel and reserve it to the kernel provider.

Reviewer 2: When creating a zero tensor in frameworks, the most common behavior is to first allocate the tensor and then fill it with zeros (either using a kernel or memset), correct? I'm inclined to let users apply zero_() in their own ways (users can modify tensors however they want once allocated), which would be more flexible (e.g. they can choose whether to use cumemset or kernel call, which stream to use and whether using pdl, etc) than having the TVM FFI handle it automatically.

.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
.. software distributed under the License is distributed on an
.. "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
.. KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
.. specific language governing permissions and limitations
.. under the License.

====================
Kernel Library Guide
====================

This guide serves as a quick start for shipping python version and machine learning(ML) framework agnostic kernel libraries with TVM FFI. With the help of TVM FFI, we can connect the kernel libraries to multiple ML framework, such as PyTorch, XLA, JAX, together with the minimal efforts.

Tensor
======

Almost all kernel libraries are about tensor computation and manipulation. For better adaptation to different ML frameworks, TVM FFI provides a minimal set of data structures to represent tensors from ML frameworks, including the tensor basic attributes and storage pointer.
To be specific, in TVM FFI, two types of tensor constructs, :cpp:class:`~tvm::ffi::Tensor` and :cpp:class:`~tvm::ffi::TensorView`, can be used to represent a tensor from ML frameworks.

Tensor and TensorView
---------------------

> Though both :cpp:class:`~tvm::ffi::Tensor` and :cpp:class:`~tvm::ffi::TensorView` are designed to represent tensors from ML frameworks that interact with the TVM FFI ABI. They are backed by the `DLTensor` in DLPack in practice. The main difference is whether it is an owning tensor structure.

Author: removed

:cpp:class:`tvm::ffi::Tensor`

>  :cpp:class:`~tvm::ffi::Tensor` is a completely owning tensor with reference counting. It can be created and passed between C++ and Python side safely. When the counting reference goes to zero, its underlying deleter function will be called to free the tensor storage.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 :cpp:class:`~tvm::ffi::Tensor` is a completely owning tensor with reference counting. It can be created on either C++ or Python side, and we use a reference count to track the number of references. It can be passed between C++ and Python. When the reference count goes to zero, its underlying deleter function will be called to free the tensor storage.
```

:cpp:class:`tvm::ffi::TensorView`
 :cpp:class:`~tvm::ffi::TensorView` is a non-owning view of an existing tensor, pointing to an existing tensor (e.g., a tensor allocated by PyTorch).

It is **recommended** to use :cpp:class:`~tvm::ffi::TensorView` when possible, that helps us to support more cases, including cases where only view but not strong reference are passed, like XLA buffer.

> It is also more lightweight. However, since :cpp:class:`~tvm::ffi::TensorView` is a non-owning view, it is the user's responsibility to ensure the lifetime of underlying tensor data and attributes of the viewed tensor object.

Author: removed

.. code-block:: c++

 ffi::Tensor tensor = ffi::Tensor::FromEnvAlloc(TVMFFIEnvTensorAlloc, ...);

which is equivalent to:

.. code-block:: c++

 at::Tensor tensor = at::empty(...);

FromNDAlloc
^^^^^^^^^^^

:cpp:func:`tvm::ffi::Tensor::FromNDAlloc` can be used to create a tensor with custom memory allocator. It's used by the kernel provider if they don't want to rely on the framework tensor allocator. Instead, they provide their own custom allocator and deleter for tensor allocation and free. However, the tensors allocated by ``FromNDAlloc`` only retain the function pointer to its custom deleter for deconstruction. The custom deletes are all owned by the kernel library still. So it is important to make sure the loaded kernel library, :py:class:`tvm_ffi.Module`, outlives the tensors allocated by ``FromNDAlloc``. Otherwise, the function pointers to the custom deleter will be invalid. Here a typical approach is to retain the loaded :py:class:`tvm_ffi.Module` globally or for the period of time. But ``FromEnvAlloc`` is free of this issue, which is more **recommended** in practice.

> 

Author: updated

:cpp:class:`tvm::ffi::Tensor`
 :cpp:class:`~tvm::ffi::Tensor` is a completely owning tensor with reference counting. It can be created on either C++ or Python side and passed between either side. And TVM FFI internally keeps a reference count to track lifetime of the tensors. When the reference count goes to zero, its underlying deleter function will be called to free the tensor storage.

:cpp:class:`tvm::ffi::TensorView`
 :cpp:class:`~tvm::ffi::TensorView` is a non-owning view of an existing tensor, pointing to an existing tensor (e.g., a tensor allocated by PyTorch).

It is **recommended** to use :cpp:class:`~tvm::ffi::TensorView` when possible, that helps us to support more cases, including cases where only view but not strong reference are passed, like XLA buffer. It is also more lightweight. However, since :cpp:class:`~tvm::ffi::TensorView` is a non-owning view, it is the user's responsibility to ensure the lifetime of underlying tensor.

Tensor Attributes
-----------------

> For the sake of convenience, :cpp:class:`~tvm::ffi::TensorView` and :cpp:class:`~tvm::ffi::Tensor` align the following attributes retrieval mehtods to :cpp:class:`at::Tensor` interface, to obtain tensor basic attributes and storage pointer:

Author: removed

``dim``, ``dtype``, ``sizes``, ``size``, ``strides``, ``stride``, ``numel``, ``data_ptr``, ``device``, ``is_contiguous``

Please refer to the documentation of both tensor classes for their details. Here  highlight some non-primitive attributes:

> :c:struct:`DLDataType`

Reviewer 4: Just to confirm - did you try offline and is this going to render properly? I met some issue a few months ago so just to double check
